>> Mike North: So
we've talked about the types of data,
we've talked about the ways
we can declare variables.
And because Java Script's
a dynamically typed language,
it's not an untyped language, types exist.
As in most dynamically typed languages
things are converted as needed.
So type conversion or type coercion,
that is this phenomenon where
the language tries to basically
make sense of what you give it.
So this one's pretty easy, 30 plus 7.
There's no type conversion going on here.
But if we were to do something like this,
does anyone know what we might get?
>> Speaker 2: 44 of
the string.
>> Mike North: Pardon?
>> Speaker 2: A string of 44.
It would have been a number.
>> Mike North: You're, you are half right.
Do you have a guess?
>> Speaker 3: It's not gonna be 377,
is it?
>> Mike North: It's gonna be 377, awesome.
Yeah, so you're, the half was basically
whatever you use the addition operator.
The plus operator, and
there's a string involved.
JavaScript will try to treat
everything else as a string.
Makes sense right?
Not really.
Do you have a question?
>> Speaker 3: Well, I was just gonna say,
that plus always wants
to concatenate right?
But if you did a minus
there it would do the math.
>> Mike North: That's true,
have you seen this before?
>> Speaker 3: No, no, sorry,
I wasn't cheating.
>> Mike North: [LAUGH] All right,
how about this one?
What's gonna happen here?
>> Speaker 2: Number 37.
>> Mike North: Number 37, so
what we see here,
this is a different operator.
It's the third use of the plus sign.
So we've got arithmetic, addition, right.
We've got string concatenation.
This is called the unary + operator.
And it just tries to convert
things into numbers, right.
So the + operator here, when used with
strings it tries it converts all other
operands, the things that the operator
is operating on, into strings.
The unary plus operator tries
to convert things to a number.
>> Mike North: Who's happy with this?
There are no hands up in the room.
This seems pretty confusing.
This is like, people can be JavaScript
programmers for years and years and years.
And this kind of thing still snags them,
particularly when you're
dealing with the DOM.
Has anyone ever gotten snagged by
an input with a number in an input, and
you kind of forget that these
are always text values that come out.
And now you're flip
flopping between things.
Not having types holds us back, so
TypeScript aims to address
some of this pain, right?
To allow us to create JavaScript
that doesn't fall into any of those
unintuitive traps.